[Watch the presentation](https://www.youtubetrimmer.com/view/?v=SERpjuB9hBM&start=15928&end=16359&loop=0)

---

Hi! Thank you so much for having me, I'm so excited to be here with you all today!

Before we get started, we've been sitting for a while so if you wouldn't mind, please join me in a quick activity. 

And if you're watching online or watching this back, feel free to follow along.

First, raise your left hand, hold it out in front of you, wiggle your fingers. Now add your other hand. Do a little wave. Clap them together. [Silly] Ah hold your applause! [Silly] 

Roll your shoulders, feel what it feels like in your body to move. 

Do a little dance. Look around, feel what it feels like to be moving alongside other people. 

In Phenomenology of Perception, Maurice Merleau-Ponty says "The body is our general medium for having a world." 

Here we are, feeling versions of the same sensations, sharing space and time physically and digitally. 

And in this way we are having a world together.

Thank you for doing that with me, feel free to relax.

MOVES is an artwork I began in the fall of 2019 as a way to make real the creative community I was cultivating online up to that point. 

I didn't want to just see people in the flatness of their curated profiles, I wanted to feel them, move with them, be in our bodies together. 

I would reach out to artists, we would meet up, create a recording of them dancing, and then spend time talking about our practices and our lives, ultimately creating a collaborative animation based on that experience.

As time went on, I began to place the animated bodies together in shared digital dance floors,

in no small part inspired by the isolation and lack of dance floors we experienced during the Pandemic

In this way, the project became a joyful, tender act 

of gardening my own personal digital archive of my community in Oakland, Los Angeles, and Web3. 

This is House Party, where my online Web3 community dances together in an imaginary space that recalls the various times we have danced together.

In moving back to Toronto and beginning my time with NEW INC, I wanted to explore how technology could be used to further this endeavor.

I began using Javascript with HTML and CSS to create web-based experiences for accessibility in a variety of spaces, projecting the work at a larger than life scale, developing the capture interface approach, and creating the archival website.  

I've also experimented with AI tools like SAM, Stable Diffusion, and a custom GAN trained on previous MOVES works. 

All this using technology not to extract bodies, but to remember them. And not for sorting, but for witnessing.

This was my first time mounting the project in Toronto and was such an exciting activation for me because the documented bodies existed at a larger than life immersive scale, truly inviting the audience to dance along.

I was able to stage the latest iteration at InterAccess for DoorsOpenTO last month.

50+ people stepped into the booth in the span of a day, danced, and added their gestures to the growing Toronto archive which will show at Nuit Blanche in October.

Here, people were directly confronted with the space their body would inhabit. Some people mimicked existing dances, some people went in new directions, and everyone spent their time seeking themselves and their loved ones in the projection.

In this iteration, glitch is further introduced as the images blur into a collective. 

This is the dance floor that was created, with each individual accessing their own animation and its contextualized form after the fact on the archive website.

We're surrounded by technology systems that flatten us into legible, profitable forms. 

But MOVES is not about legibility. 

You can see yourself and the people you love, but these renderings preserve anonymity. Your image is preserved as gesture as opposed to personal data.

In this way MOVES offers a choreography of mutual recognition. 

A soft, shared gesture that refuses the extractive logics that structure so much of the rest of our digital lives. 

From here I want to bring the project to spaces across Toronto and beyond. 

Providing a turnkey experience that allows spaces to *archive* their communities in a participatory *non* extractive way.

Individual's share a short movement that is recorded, rotoscoped, and trimmed to loop

And then an archive of the moment in time is projected in the space and preserved as webpage-situated dance floor, accessible to the community.

With this project I'm imagining a different kind of digital world, embodied, soft, and welcoming.

This has been a true labor of love for me as I try to renegotiate my relationship with technology, my digital self, and my forever pursuit of belonging.

So - what do I need from you?

If you're an artist, curator, or cultural worker – let's archive your community through MOVES.

And if you're a person with a body – dance with me. Literally, by joining the project. 

And more broadly, today, on Friday, in how you think about technology, and each other. 

I know you can dance, I just saw you. 

The dance floor is heating up. 

You're invited.

Thank you.
